When I heard that Marc Jacobs Beauty was coming back into business, I knew that I wanted to compare the old collection and the new collection to see what exactly had changed and if any of the business decisions that happened behind the scenes influenced Marc Jacobs' decision to come back with his beauty brand despite it being dissolved in 2021. 

I also wanted to give myself a fun project where I could collect data and analyze that, and use messy data that isn't super clean cut. Use data that is pretty qualitative and subjective to tell a story about a brand that was once a powerhouse, died, and then came back. 

And I already enjoy looking at image after image of makeup products and swatches, so I knew that this would be a good project for me.
The first thing I did was start collecting raw data about the makeup. For the 2026 collection, I went to the Marc Jacobs website and clicked on every single product. This included:
- The product itself and its name that the brand gave it, how the brand categorized the product (is it an eye product, a lip product, or a face product), and then, within each product category, I gave it a name (is it a mascara, is it an eyeliner, is it an eyeshadow, is it a blush, is it a highlighter, is it a lipstick). 
- And then I would click on each and every shade of each product type and use a color picker in my browser, using a browser extension, to gather the RGB or hex code or the CMYK information about each of the colors that were in the 2026 makeup collection. 

To gather information about the 2013 collection, it was a bit more difficult, seeing that the page that existed on markjacobs.com has been archived for a while now, and you can't find that information on Sephora anymore either. I went to the biggest database of makeup products that I know, which is temptalia.com. Thankfully, Temtalia had a blog post written a couple days before the 2013 launch of the Marc Jacobs Beauty Collection, run by Kendo and LVMH. In that article, in which she includes cited sources, she gives a full list of all the initial products that the 2013 launch was going to contain. I use that as my jumping off point to search for all the products that were first launched in the 2013 collection.

One thing I want to note at this point is that, since 2013 until the brand's dissolution in 2021, the Marc Jacobs Beauty collection expanded a lot. Whatever kinds of shades or products that they started out with were not the same products that they ended with in 2021, but for the sake of this project I wanted to capture what the collection looked like in 2013 when it first launched. 

So, to find all the information that I did for the 2013 products and to keep the information I found consistent with the level of detail that I had for 2026, I had to go to a couple of different sources. The first source that I relied on a lot was Temtalia. Aside from her blog post about the Marc Jacobs launch, she also had a couple of products in the initial launch that she had done in-depth reviews on, including swatches, weights, prices, all that detailed information. The other site I looked at a lot was beautylish.com, which sells makeup products that are a bit more obscure. Sometimes they sell things that are no longer on Sephora because they have a backlog of inventory. For the 2013 Marc Jacobs Collection makeup items, even though they weren't being sold at the time, if I Google searched for them with Beautylish in mind (meaning I would search 2013 Marc Jacobs insert product name Beautylish), the page for that would come up even though they were no longer selling the product.

From there, I was able to find images of products and find all the different product types and product shades of the original 2013 launch products. I used those images and my color picker to pick up the color swatches of all the products that had launched back then. I also found some information from individual blogs, including The Beauty Lookbook and Candy Coco. These are two creators who were big on their website blogs, and they would post swatches and reviews of how the product wore on them.

Candy Coco had written a blog post about the initial range of foundations that Marc Jacobs came out with and mentioned that she had gotten the three darkest shades. None of them actually worked for her.

For The Beauty Lookbook, I found swatches for the palette Lolita, which I wasn't able to find on beautylish.com. 

As I was collecting this data, I would leave as many notes as I could in a spreadsheet inside row zero. And as I continued to collect data, I realized I needed more columns or I was missing some information. As I kept going, I used the agent in the agent chat feature to help me create more columns and to think about how I needed to format my raw data. 

I'm going to insert information about what exactly I improved in the raw data and row zero in this section. 

Once I felt that I had collected enough data in Row Zero, I exported those as a CSV and then plopped it into my Snowflake database. And then in Snowflake, I continued to clean up the data and use the raw data to create different views and different analytics. 

Once I felt that I had sufficiently analyzed and cleaned my data in Snowflake, I reconnected my Snowflake database to Row Zero. This is when I started in a new workbook. I was not working in the same workbook that I had for the raw data. So in row 0, I was able to view every single analytics table I had created in Snowflake much more easily than I would in Snowflake. And I made pivot tables that I felt would show me valuable information about the different tables I'd created. Once I saw what I saw in the pivot tables, it gave me a good direction on how I wanted to plot and visualize the data and the patterns that I was seeing. Before I started this project, I had kind of a hunch about what kinds of insights I would find by doing this project. Seeing the data and the pivot tables helped me confirm that I was going in the right direction and gave me some guidance on how I wanted to plot the data. 

One thing I will note about row zero is that I think some of its data visualization and dashboard capabilities still need a little bit of work. I really wanted to make a pie chart a lot of the times, and they didn't have a pie chart option. Making bar charts was kind of difficult. I really wanted to make a scatterplot where I could have more flexibility in terms of font or label size or color of the data labels, and I just didn't have a lot of stylistic freedom. I get that row zero is not really trying to be a data visualization design product. It really is like a spreadsheet powerhouse, so this is more just my complaint than an actual critique of the product. 

Once I was done with the pivot tables in row zero, that's when I went back to Snowflake. In Snowflake, I created a workspace where I hosted several different Python notebooks, one for each product category, really.

For example, for the eyeshadows, I created a scatter plot of all the colors of the eyeshadows and the textures of the eyeshadows, both old and new. From there, I could compare and contrast the hues and the lightness or the darkness of the eyeshadows that Mark Jacobs comes out with in 2013 versus 2026. 

Once I had the plots, I ended up spending a lot of time stylizing them. I hadn't used a Jupyter Notebook-like feature in a really long time. I think the last time I used it was in college, and I forgot how aggravating it is to try to make any stylistic decision in this format and make changes to your tables, the spacing between the titles, the plot, and whatnot. Overall, I was pretty happy with what I saw in the data. 