The original Marc Jacobs Beauty Collection came out in 2013 during the peak of indie sleaze. I remember being a sophomore or a junior in high school, being obsessed with Alexa Chung and the Arctic Monkeys, and always wearing plum-colored eyeliner smudged across my lids with heaps of mascara to school. Just as he's dressing the cool It Girl punk girls of 2026, namely Olivia Rodrigo with her baby doll dresses and her big stomping Kiki boots, he was dressing the cool punk It Girls of 2013 as well. While I didn't have Marc Jacobs clothing money, I had saved up to buy a Marc by Marc Jacobs watch. But that's besides the point. 

My point is that Marc Jacobs Beauty happened when I was at an age where I was starting to develop an interest in luxury beauty. Things like Chanel lipsticks, Chanel nail varnish, and Dior perfumes. Marc Jacobs has been a creative director of Louis Vuitton since 1994, so when he launched his beauty brand, it was kind of a no-brainer for him to launch with Kendo, which is a subsidiary of Louis Vuitton. In 2013 and 2014, you can see in the Louis Vuitton parent company's financial reports that they had high hopes for Marc Jacobs starting this beauty brand. They were also starting to venture out into luxury beauty markets and their partnership with Sephora.

I remember the original Marc Jacobs Beauty Collection being incredibly chic. The black glossy packaging, the really clean mirrors, every single shadow was really pigmented and soft. It felt very luxurious to hold it in your hand. And every single product being in this kind of pill-shaped packaging with the rounded edges and the embossed Marc Jacobs logo in his iconic font, it all felt very chic. And I realize now I wasn't the only one who felt that way. Marc Jacobs Beauty did incredibly well between the years of 2013 and 2018 and 2019. In the 2018 financial report of Financier Agaché, they state that Marc Jacobs and Fenty Beauty were one of their highest performers in the Kendo brands in their beauty partnership with Sephora. This was the year that they had come out with a newer version of their gel foundation that came in a squeezy bottle, and people were obsessed with that. 

The pandemic was actually what led to the demise of Marc Jacobs Beauty's time with Kendo Beauty. Obviously, because we all weren't going out, fewer people were wearing makeup, and more people were concerned with their skincare.

Kendo Beauty, at the time, housed Marc Jacobs Beauty, Fenty Beauty, and Ulla Henriksen. Because of the situation with the pandemic, skincare brands like Ulla Henriksen and Fenty Beauty, which had both a beauty line and a skincare line, did very well. Fenty Skin, for example, did particularly well during and shortly after the pandemic.

What suffered, on the other hand, was Marc Jacobs Beauty. Because of that, and portfolio prioritization and the loss of a lot of money in LVMH's beauty endeavors, I believe that was the reason why they decided to stop doing Marc Jacobs Beauty at Kendo Brands. Marc Jacobs himself has said that he was very upset to see this line go. He really didn't want to stop doing it, and I believe it, at least to me.

Marc Jacobs, the person, the designer, has always struck me as someone who really loves to design and finds a lot of joy in his work. I remember the reason I was drawn to his 2013 makeup collection was because of an interview that he did stating why he was interested in doing a beauty brand. It was nice to see the founder and designer of a brand have something truthful to say about why a brand is coming out with a makeup line, when a lot of luxury designer brands come out with makeup as just an easy way to make money. An easy way to give customers who would not be able to buy their leather goods and their higher luxury items something to spend their money on. 

So when I saw that it was getting discontinued in 2021, it made me pretty upset, but not everything great can last forever, and I supposed it was time for Marc Jacobs Beauty to move on. He had other stuff anyway, like his Daisy Fragrance line, which was being distributed by Coty. I think it's really rare to see a high-fashion brand do a beauty line that doesn't feel stale and feels like a genuine extension of its fashion line, so I was really sad to see this go. As we drifted further and further apart from the pandemic, I (and I suppose other people on the internet) were starting to wonder about what happened to Marc Jacobs Beauty and if it would ever come back. There was some nostalgia happening on the internet about it. 

Around the beginning of 2026, I started to see some posts pop up on the internet of people asking about Marc Jacobs Beauty and if they thought it would ever come back. Around March, I started seeing some posts where people were saying, "Oh, I'm hearing some whisperings that it might come back." By April/May, it was confirmed that Marc Jacobs Beauty was coming back, and his line was going to be distributed by Coty, which already had been distributing his fragrances since 2007. 

Here I'm going to insert some information about Marc Jacobs' interviews and his desire to redo his makeup brand again and his intention for the collection. 

I can't speak too much about Cody's financial reports because none of them really specify why they decided to go through with distributing Marc Jacobs' beauty campaign. There's not a lot of information about that. 

But what I can talk about is customer sentiment. I gathered information from Reddit. There's one thread that people had when we found out that there was going to be a new collection coming out, so I want to do sentiment analysis on that. There are a couple of threads that I found that happened after the collection launch. They show some people's sentiments on how they feel about them and what their expectations for the products and the packaging were versus what they felt that they got. And then I also did a ton of analysis on the products themselves and the cost of the things. From there, I'm going to see how well the new launch and the customer sentiment of the new launch align with Marc Jacobs' vision and dreams for this relaunch of his beauty campaign. 